= BibOut 

This package contains BibOut, a simple tool to convert BibTeX
files into HTML or other types of formatted text files.

The main feautre of BibOut is that it allows the user to specify
a template for the output. The templating system is based on
ERB[http://ruby-doc.org/stdlib-2.1.0/libdoc/erb/rdoc/ERB.html],
so it is very flexible.

== Installation

=== Gem Installation

Download and install BibOut with the following.

   gem install bibout

== Usage

=== Simple Example

You will need a BibTeX file. Suppose that your file is called +mine.bib+
and contains the entries

        @article{robbins-monro,
	Author = {Robbins, H. and Monro, S.},
	Journal = {Annals of Mathematical Statistics},
	Pages = {400--407},
	Title = {A stochastic approximation method},
	Volume = {22},
	Year = {1951}}

        @article{metropolis,
	Author = {Metropolis, N. and Rosenbluth, A. and Rosenbluth, M. and Teller, A. and Teller, E.},
	Journal = {J. Chem. Phys.},
	Pages = {1087--1092},
	Title = {Equations of state calculations by fast computing machines},
	Volume = {21},
	Year = {1953}}


Then you will need to create a template file that tells BibOut how to format your entries.
Call this file +template.tmpl+

        <html>
          <body>
            <ol>
              <% bib.each do |entry| %>
              <li><%= entry.year %>. <%= entry.author.pretty %></li>
              <% end %>
            </ol>
           </body>
         </html>

Finally, you can run bibout using

   % ls
   template.tmpl  mine.bib
   % bibout -t template.tmpl -o my-bib.html mine.bib

After running this command, the file +my-bib.html+ will be created and will contain:

  <html>
    <body>
      <ol>
      
        <li>1951. H. Robbins and S. Monro</li>
      
        <li>1953. N. Metropolis, A. Rosenbluth, M. Rosenbluth, A. Teller and E. Teller</li>
      
      </ol>
     </body>
  </html>

Type + bibout --help + for more information about the command-line invocation.

== Create Template Files

To use BibOut, the biggest thing that you need to do is to create the template file.
The template file can contain arbitrary text and Ruby code.
For more information and examples,
see the {documentation about templates}[http://casutton.github.io/bibout/templates.html]

== Development

=== Source Repository

BibOut is currently hosted at github. The github web page is
http://github.com/casutton/bibout . The public git clone URL is

* git://github.com/casutton/bibout.git

=== Issues and Bug Reports

Feature requests and bug reports can be made here

* https://github.com/casutton/bibout/issues

== Other BibTeX to HTML programs

There are many other BibTeX to HTML programs

* https://www.lri.fr/~filliatr/bibtex2html/ -- bibtex2html, a nice and well-documented tool
* http://tug.ctan.org/tex-archive/biblio/bibtex/utils/bib2ml/ -- bib2ml (CTAN)
* http://www.spinellis.gr/sw/textproc/bib2xhtml/ -- bib2xml
* http://sourceforge.net/p/bibutils/home/Bibutils/ -- bib2xml component of bibutils

If you know of others, please let me know and I shall be happy to add them to this list.

== Credits

This project is basically a thin wrapper that combines bibtex-ruby[https://github.com/inukshuk/bibtex-ruby/] by Sylvester Keil
with ERB[http://ruby-doc.org/stdlib-2.0.0/libdoc/erb/rdoc/ERB.html] by Masatoshi SEKI.

Thanks also to {Atsushi Nagase}[http://ngs.io] for the hanna-bootstrap[http://ngs.github.io/hanna-bootstrap/] RDoc template.

== License

BibOut is available under an MIT-style license.

:include: LICENSE.md

---

= Other stuff

Author::   Charles Sutton <csutton@inf.ed.ac.uk>
Requires:: Ruby 1.8.7 or later
License::  Copyright 2013-2014 by Charles Sutton
           Released under an MIT-style license.  See the LICENSE
           file included in the distribution.

== Warranty

This software is provided "as is" and without any express or
implied warranties, including, without limitation, the implied
warranties of merchantibility and fitness for a particular
purpose.
